# CoinCollection

This is a program that I designed to document my collection of Coins, Coin Sets, and Dollar Bills. It uses a MySQL database, and a Java/Kotlin program.

Coins, Bills, and Coin sets can be added to the collection, and then the collection can be viewed in a table format (like Excel.) these tables can also be exported to an xls, xlsx, or csv file for later use.

Each item (Coin, Set, or Bill) can also have 2 images attached to it... 1 for the front (obverse) of the item and 1 for the back (reverse) of the item. These images are stores in the user's file system, and the user can decide where ot put these images. Only the file extension is stored in the database.

This program was created and tested on a Linux variant based on Ubuntu. I have not done any testing (yet) on other operating systems, but it should work on Windows and probably Mac.

I will also add screenshots to this ReadMe in the future.

**NOTE**

For some reason, some things don't seem to work right now when run indepentendly (ie. not run via IntelliJ Idea.) I'm not sure why, but I'll try to figure it out.

# Database

A diagram of the database setup is included in `Coin Collection.pdf`. This diagram was created using https://dbdiagram.io

The database is pretty straight forward, with very little complication involved.

# Installation

## Linux

There is a folder called "linux" with files necessary to create the necessary database and run the program. Run the "CreateDatabase.sh" file and it should install all necessary packages (mariadb-client and mariadb-server), create the database, create a user for the database, and install the necessary JDK-15 to run the program.

Once the database is created, simply run "run_linux.sh" and you should be able to start documenting your collection.

## Windows

At this point this has not been tested on Windows. However, if you know how to create a MySQL Server, install a MySQL Client on your PC, and install JDK 15 on your PC, you should be able to run the program.

The sql file to create the database is included in a folder called "Windows". (It's the same as the file in the "linux" directory.) This file should be all you need to create the database. Once the database is created, you should be able to use the following command to run the program: `java -cp ".\out\production\Coin Program\" Main` assuming that this command is being run from the base directory of the project.

# Future Ideas

Uncut Sheets - In the future I would like to add the ability to also enter uncut sheets of bills. These will be treated in a similar way to Coin Sets. I, personally, do not own any of these sheets at this time, so it was not a priority for me.

# Building from Source

This was originally built using [Intellij Idea](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/). You will need [mysql-connector-java-*.jar](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/) where * is the current version. This jar is neseccary to connect to the MySQL database. If you do not include this file (or do so improperly) you will receive an error when the program loads, which will tell you to add the file to your project.

The program was built using OpenJDK-15, but any JDK of the same (or higher) version level should work fine.

The source is a mix of Kotlin and Java. Any file that was generated by Intellij is Java, and the files created by me are Kotlin. This mix of Kotlin and Java may lead to issues if you try to build it with a different tool, but I find Kotlin much easier to both read and write.

## Error Handling

Some of the error handling could admittedly be a little better - mostly returning more precise information. There are a lot of Try/Catch blocks, but some of them do not report the error back in as much detail as it probably should. This is something that will likely be improved in later versions, or if people (other than me) actually start using this. 

Also, because of the way that some of the errors are handled, some operations could potentially end up partially done and partially undone. Again, this will likely be addressed in a later version. These scenarios are extremely unlikely, but should stil be addressed in the rare case that one of those extremely unlikey scenarios occurs.
